How it becomes deeper, wider, and more performant according to the Jnana levels. Jnana or the
Drana levels. Now the first, how many doctrines? We have regularly said that there are poor
doctrines. Poor doctrines generally what that means is Buddha gives the teachings, teachings,
and then after the Buddha entered Mahaparin Nirvana, now those masters began to establish
the systems, the entire teaching of the Buddhas in a way to condense the brain up so that
everybody can understand and follow that. Follow that. Follow the will, follow the meditation,
and follow the conduct, and then bear the results. So it is establishment of the systems, of
the entire teaching of the Buddha, how these great masters interpreted and established.
That is what is called doctorance. In interpreting, doctoring is called Trungtha. Trungtha,
something
that really is not also kind of vaguely established or put the system together, but it is through
the teaching of the Buddha, through the reason, is long and a rabbi let it believe itself. Long
means, scripture means the teaching of the Buddha. Exhilarly follow with the teaching of the Buddha
,
and they use the logic, reasoning, and it's now true. What Buddha said is true, and this is what
it is. That's how they establish it. Buddha also gives that way teaching to it. He gives
it his reason, and then Buddha gives the teachings with this. So therefore, these doctorance, these
first four doctorates that we all started, and also we can keep additional objects. And of course,
many of you, a few of you, maybe don't do these things, but again, as I said, this doctrine is a
system that Buddhism developed after the Buddha entered the Mahāprā in the months. And it is
exactly teaching of the Buddha, because follow the scripture of the teaching of the Buddha,
and use the reason, added a reason, reason, this is what in all Buddha in the teaching over 45
years,
I think over 45 years. So they collected all that anger, anger everywhere, looked, and then could
have talked with the reason. So that is a doctrine. Now, the doctrine has four doctors. That's the
philosophical systems of the doctrine, four. And one of four, please tell me.
Vibhāṣka. Vibhāṣka. What? Vibhāṣka. Satyātrika. Middleweight, or mind only. Shri Mārta.
Middleweight, that middleweight, that's it. Right? Okay, now I'd like to ask, what means Vibhāṣ
ka?
Vibhāṣka means? Particular in school. Particular schools. Yeah, the school is sev, in the debate
,
it's called sev Rāṇava. Sev Rāṇava means is particularly expressive, particularly expressive.
But this sev Rāṇava is, actually, in the teaching said, I don't know if you can imagine those
things
in this first Vibhāṣka or Bhūgula, I don't remember that. But in what means Vibhāṣka,
it is named after very famous teaching called sev Rāṇava. Sev Rāṇava. This is pacifically
expressed,
particularly pacifically, or the title of the pacific explanations. It's very famous text.
This in the teaching said that in the Buddha gave, of course, Abhidharma teachings. But Buddha gave
,
Abhidharma teachings, in a way, very kind of like, just occasionally in the Buddha gave teaching,
there's no independently existing Abhidharma teaching, such as we learn Abhidharma. Dharma,
that Buddha gave as the Pandya Paramata or the Vinayas, is very spread out. And because of that,
then during the Buddha's time, seven ahatas collected all the teachings and put toghed,
put toghed. Troghed, that's known as seven groups of the Abhidharma teachings. These seven groups
of
Abhidharma teaching is the Buddha teaching, all at the time of the Buddha. And some said,
"Oh, it's not Buddha's city because it's aha, those great ahatas, in a way, collected." But
however, the teaching of the Buddha collected by this great ahatas, such as Hari Putter and
Mongol Putter, and so forth, is the seven ahatas. And that is what Abhidharma teaching
independently
existed. And of course, Vaidyana teaching, such as Pandya Paramata teachings, also known as Abhidh
arma
teaching, but this is the wisdom teaching, teachings on the wisdom. Abhidharma is the
wisdom. And wisdom has two wisdoms, starting wisdom, contemplation wisdom, or solitary,
and then meditation wisdoms. This Pandya Paramata teaching in Vaidyana teaching is more like
meditation and practice wisdoms. So starting at a contemplating level, more focused, is these
seven groups of the Abhidharma teachings, gathered by these great seven ahatas. Then that
continually, in accordance to his story, that continually until the Port Petriyas of the
Buddhist Port, Port Petriyas. And that is, first of all, kashapa, post-Petriyas, or post-Buddha
reading, kashapa, then ananda, then called shani kuji, and the master, ahat shani kuji,
so ahat, kashapa, ahat, ananda, ahat, shani kuji, in the Tibetan word, and then port one is ahat,
niebi, niebi, niebi, is then, if you use Sanskrit word, is apa-gubta, iti, apa-gubta. It's among
all causes, all those, like, they are not really different than Buddha himself. Maha-kakah is ahat,
ananda is ahat, and shani kuji become ahat. Everyone is like golden molten, one after another. But
among that, this niebi become the one in history, one of the great religions of the upper Buddhist,
because it gets, so many students came, students came, so many people gathered ananda groups by
his teachings, and so many people told the ordination program. And the teachings here,
they give so many teachings. Each time they collected one stone, sorry, stick, stick, stick,
and they just put it inside one cave. I think this can loosely indicate in the other, Ayodhya,
Ayodhya, around that place. In the modern time, Ayodhya is ancient time name too. So the whole cave
is filled by that small stretch, because the number of the howl, he give the ordination is there.
So this is the one of the very famous ahatas and badriyas. In that time, in the teachings,
they said, 500 ahatas gathered together and met the commentaries, commentaries on that seven groups
of
Abhidharma teachings, seven groups of Abhidharma teachings. And that's what they did. And that is
the first accorded Buddhism, first commentaries on the Buddha teachings. Five hundred ahatas
gathered
together and met commentaries on this. This is called, then, sevra-hindu-chimu, as I said before,
the trigger of the Pacificic explaining, sevra-hindu-chimu. So, Vibhashika school,
follow that teaching, that teaching and then named after that teaching, then Vibhashika. And
because
also in the teachings said, Vibhashika's master, as they said, is immediately to understand the
teaching of the Buddha himself directly, it's difficult. We should follow the commentaries,
commentaries, we should follow that. So, they follow with that teaching and the school name,
Vibhashika. So, that is Vibhashika's. Then, this has how many, the trigger of the expressing the
Pacific, or particularly, that has in the teachings said, 100,000 standards, is not completely
translated into Tibet. There are many volumes, it says, it's not translated completely. But that
is so big, and it's so vast, again, even though it is. And then, great master Basubendu extracted
essence of that, that, and known as that, this modern time, everybody knows, Abhidharma-kautam,
Abhidharma-kautam, which is, again, so profound and deep, but to compare it with this 100,000
standards of that express, trigger of the express of the particular or Pacific things, it's then
smaller. Smaller, and also this then become, then, the powerful, famous, Abhidharma teachings.
Basubendu was always also named as second Buddha. Second Buddha, he like, has become as like second
Buddha. And so famous, so master, so scholar, scholar, so understanding, and he memorized,
he tried, and he said, 900, so in '89, '99, so there is, that he memorized completely, and he
joined that once in a year, or once in a month, every year. He sat there, during the night, in the
teaching, he said, he sat on the big olive oil, not the olive oil, sorry, because olive oil becomes
so
popular now, so I'm using that, he means olive oil. But he said, it's a mustard oil, this is big
mustard oil, chain, and it's up to here, here, and then he joined, decided all that
sutras. Why he said in the day, you see, because it takes so much energy, so much energy, therefore
oil absorbs, re-energizes that. That's what he said. So this great master synthesized. So that,
therefore, this vivashika, it's the name, that, upper name there. And then, suttantika, what is
the meaning of suttantika, now? Suttar meaning? Computer school class. That's it? That's what
teaching says. And there's what, the suttantika school said, oh, all the way to the commentaries of
the
Buddha teaching, still Kupa can buy some mistakes. Therefore, we're going to follow this with the
teller to the suttara, do that teaching itself. Therefore, then is the name as suttara, suttantakas
,
suttantakas. And then, next school is what? I think we said mind-only school. Why is the name mind-
only?
Because mind exists. What? Mind exists. Yeah, that's it. This is from now on, from now on these
schools,
all the way to the very end, everything is disability of mind. But this started from here.
Here, therefore, he said everything is mind. Everything is disability. That also indicating,
before that, that means vivashika and suttantaka don't accept everything's mind. They don't accept.
Their philosophy, their doctrine, don't accept everything's mind. But from mind-only school,
everything is now mind. So mind-only school, then said mind-only. That means mind-only. Everything
is
mind-only. That's it. And then, next one is Mademaka. And what is meaning of Mademaka? Bold meaning
of Mademaka.
What? That's it. And what that means, middle-way means? Free of extremes. What? Free of extremes.
That's it. Free from the extremes. Because Mademaka is similar. Everything is disability
of mind. All that did not highlight that. But everything is, nature is not extreme. That's
indicating. Nature is not indicating. Things we see in the world, whatever that may be,
it is also where a building is balanced. It's balanced. Middle-way means balanced.
Balanced. That is what it is. All and no extremes. Free from the extremes. That. And then,
that is external. It's relativized. At the absolute level, even there is no middle.
Middle. And what that great master now originally said in the teachings?
Said. Said. Since there is no extreme or an edge, how there is middle? Middle. There is no middle.
Middle. And again, so that means every grasping notion has to be released to discover the true
as it is. True as it is. As we start holding something, we are following the Force.
Force. F-A-L-S-E. Force. All the illusions. Illusions. And then that will deceive, deceive.
That will make us disappointments. So that's about the world meanings of this Force Force. Now you
know. So now I think we really met this meaning of the Force Force there. Now we go back to the
head.
Said. How they developed the true truth. Or how, how they interpreted two truths.
So that means all the schools were Buddhism. Except bring the true truth. Because the teaching
of the Buddha is natural. And how Vibhachika schools now going to see the true truth.
And that is what in the teaching said. Said. And that is again famous quotation from Abhidharma
Gautam. That by great Master Vasubenus. And that he said. Things can destroy. Things go away.
Way. And all, anything of things can go away. Things are going to be destroyed.
All the clinicians and this ability. Those all are related truth. Things go away.
But something that cannot go away. Go away is absolute truth.
That is what this great Master Vasubenus said. And that is the view of the Vibhachika schools.
Of true truth. Now what that means. Things can go away. And that is for example used
examples in the teaching. Was. Was. V-A-S-E. Was. Was. If somebody came and hit the counter.
It can be destroyed. You lost that was. Was.
And then also something said to look into the river.
What you're looking to the river. First minute. And next minute that river is gone.
It's not the same. Same river. Or same water. Same water is gone.
So this is the changing. Changeable these things.
All that. And then there was, for example used was. If it was that we bring down that.
Down that and break was. And then again humming. Hummering. Hummering. Hummering. Hummering.
Eighty it will go to this. This pieces go away. Completely go away. Pieces go away. Pieces go away.
Completely. Getting smaller. Smaller. Smaller.
This is the examples of every these gross things.
Is. Is. Illusions. Can be destroyed. Can be destroyed. Can be changed.
But then what is the absolute truth? Something that cannot be destroyed.
Cannot be destroyed. That is what this school says, I mean in the teaching said, said that the
atoms,
atom, the molecule or the subatomic whatever terminology is the most subtle sub particles.
Sub particles. That is existing. And that is the sub particle. Sub particle level that is
thick. The most subtle subtle particle. That is existing and that cannot be destroyed.
Cannot be destroyed. If you burn away, they use the examples. If you burn that in fire,
fire cannot burn. There is nothing to burn. And if you throw that in the river,
there is nothing to carry away. Not just that, even the others. Such as Hari Potara, Mughal Potara,
they didn't find anything. So this is partless atoms. So partless atoms.
And then that is the. So this is one. And the second is the partless of our mind,
partless of our consciousness. Again, our consciousness, personally our consciousness
gross is something that we can feel, we can take that. But if we divide that by the times,
past is past or past and the future is not yet erupt. And present consciousness, we divide that
in mentally, divide it to the times. Times, then also there is nothing to find. It's gone.
And but that partless consciousness is existing. That is existence. And then they put a reputation
or ask questions. Absent there is nothing to find. It cannot be burned, cannot be carried by in the
rivers or whatever. And even the others didn't see. Then why is there? Why? Then what is this,
what you mean is there? Then they ask us because they have to have that. Otherwise this is what we
see. This universe and everything, where that comes from? Where this comes from? Then it won't
function. Our mind cannot function. So therefore, even we did it, it detected, even we didn't see.
But there is existing known as that partless atom. Partless. It has no part at all. It's the
most subtle sub, sub-atomic, sub-atomic. No, indivisible particle. Yeah, there's beyond that.
It's that, that's so. That is the, the substantial existing and that is absolute truth.
These two partless atoms, partless atom and partless consciousness is absolute truth.
Absolute truth. So that is the one, these two, these goals. Agnes of the,
the true truth or they, they perceive this. And now we move to the, to the second,
something that can, can perform the action and something that can do is related truth.
And something, somebody cannot function that is. Sorry, I, I mixed up, I mixed up.
Something that can perform the activities and functioning, that is absolute truth.
That is absolute truth. And something that cannot perform, perform the action as we see,
and that is related to this. So that means it can, as something that, the object that can,
something that can do, functioning that is absolute truth and cannot do, then related,
related to truth. So that example now, what that is, is, for example, something that can
function things means that a fire can burn and heat up. It is. That is, and water can wash,
cleanse, or put in the garden, so forth. And similarly, was can carry the water,
was can carry the water, so forth. Those all are absolute truths. Truths. And the related truth is
that, artificial, if we use artificial, artificial, or such as picture of the was
cannot carry water, even though it looks like was, was, or the reflection moon in the water
is not the moon. It won't perform as function activity as, as moon. And then,
rapid homes, if you use those, rapid homes, of course, conceptual levels, all these things,
that those are all known as relative truths. So there's slightly different ways to interpret
this two truths. And now, we move to the mind-only schools. How the mind-only schools
develop. All they say, the relative truth and absolute truths. And generally, in mind-only
schools, their personal philosophy is what? What are those called? Three something. Anybody knows?
Three what?
Three natures. Anybody? Three natures?
That's it. Three natures. Three natures, or if I use it in a slightly different way,
translation. Three characteristics. Three characteristics. This is the principle
philosophies of, in a way, way, not in a way, principle philosophies of the mind-only schools.
Three characteristics. And these three characteristics are, many times I translate it,
I think, with the kiramuji, the exaggeration of the power and true existence. But I was also
so surprised to put this, maybe this is more nicer than what I did, I thought. And this is,
in post-excavation, they use input phenomena. Input phenomena. Input phenomena or input
labels. Input phenomena. And input, I think, is A-N-P-U-T. Or A-M. I-M. I-M.
Imputed. Inputty. Inputty phenomena. It's that what I open you to say, exaggeration.
So you compare. You compare which is good. Exaggeration or that. And then, this other powers,
again, I use that and then some other, also I saw. So, and use the word, that dependent phenomena.
Dependent phenomena. Dependent phenomena. And then, this yundap, true existence.
That is, as I think, the ultimate existence. So now, we think of these three meanings.
Three. And what is now, maybe we go with the ultimate existence. Ultimate existence
is in this school. Mind-only school. Accepting there is that mind truly exists. Truly exists.
And alternate teachings say, existing where they exist and not just exist as we say,
but existing beyond of the grasping of subject and object. The mind, that means,
mind that true mind, clear like awareness, which is free from clinging of the subject and object.
Object, that mind exists. That mind exists. So that mind is here. Name known as true existing.
Or intubated yundap, yundap. True existing is there, is here. Because of that,
then all this displays arise. Everything is came to us. Each individual, that is the same.
In the Jyotji teaching, in the Vajrayala teaching, same. Each individual is, in a way, our own
creation of our own environments. Each individual are the creators of our perception,
perception, consumption, and then of course consciousness and as well as feelings.
In a way, we finally, everything say, okay, the ourself. We would say, it's consciousness,
it's mind. Everything is mind. So now that is what's called, this is truly existing or yundap, yund
ap.
This true existing, existing, then this dependent phenomena or power by others, other powers.
Other powers, that is because this, this sub, this, this mind that which is free from the
subject object of grasping, cling on the subject object, that is not just one piece of object,
but it is as all the qualities of the variety and openness, flexibles, possibilities,
effects, all that possibilities. From that, from that, spontaneously arising the energy, arising
qualities. That arising qualities is known as interdependent co-ordination. It's all connected,
that kind of waves as like connections, connections of the interdependence. As like almost like cow
waves, cow waves, cow waves, cow waves, cow waves, cow waves. But it's not just straight forward
like
that. Our target is they all connected, yet of course it dissolves, is emerging, reappearing that
interdependent co-ordination. It's not just one, straight lines, cow waves, cow waves, like that.
But it's all cooperated, cooperated. That cooperated is known as the power of the others
or the dependent phenomena. It's not just they arise this by one, one by one,
it's all arising. It's dependent, dependent. And then what are those arises? We go to all these
phenomena things, I arise one after another, as I said, all the arrogance, all the perceptions.
Then our dream begins, dream begins, tangibly. And then that also merging, unfolding one after
another, another, and then whole, that dream begins. So that is known as other powers,
other power. Because of that, because of that, then we make exaggerations, as I said,
I translate exaggerations, but other place I saw input phenomena. Then we put the input phenomena.
To that phenomena, we make inputs, inputs. What do we input? Then we make all the divisions,
what is the rest? Good, bad, dirty, clean, high, low, and right, wrong, all the mountain tree,
water, so for this all we input. We input it, we hold onto that as we input this. They not,
that also indicated that other power is not really coming with that names, these labels,
it's not coming, but we label, we put that, we made up that, everything. And then each country
made different names, these and that things, but it is all inputs. That is known as exaggeration
or input phenomena. This is how the samsara then begins. So now the reality level is what?
Is the true existence? The consciousness or the consciousness is free from the two
grasping, subject and object. That clay sub-luminate, sub-intelligence is known as the
absolute truth. That is the absolute truth in this school. And other powers or dependent powers and
as
well as, as input phenomena, all are relative truths. All are relative truths. Input phenomena,
other power, that is relative truths. Then of course, and again in the great Master Mahoney
Buddha, this used very clay precisely and in this teaching said that, but also this other power
can have actually two, two aspects. And other power of the indeed build other powers and build
other powers. And that I think I'm going to talk with you with these truths, but if we use that
glance now here, that impure other powers is all this, our, what we're discussing now, all these
things is impure. And then with the levels, all is, is, is impure other powers. The pure other
powers
is then, the pure lands. Pure land and the wisdom, guides and all those in Buddha's environment or
enlightenment environment is pure other powers. That to compare with the kind of language things
are,
then other, that, that will build, build other power phenomena is, is absolute truth. It's truth.
That is what it is. That not going to deceive us. That this impure of the phenomena or the power,
this thing, it is, it's going to deceive us. It's going to change. It's not going to last.
But that pure phenomena, pure and dependent phenomena or other power which you would
ask me, we use and that we're going to stay. This is the environment of the pure lands.
So that is the really understanding of this,
this mindful resource, the heritage truth explained. So that means again, if I put a
really, really kind of truth without using, using those three, three characteristics,
then I will say in this school, school, the relative truth is the, all the grasping and clinging
subject, objects are the relative truths and the nature, that or nature of the mind, which is free
from the true grasping of the subject or object, that is absolute truth. That is absolute truth.
So grasping, clinging, holding, this is relative truth, free from that, that of the consciousness
is absolute truth. That is the one, how these schools excel. And now I won't talk over, the
Madhivaka is already here, here, so we go over to the next. And now how the Vadiyana teachings,
how that explores these two truths. And first of all, the Vadiyana is now again, really mind-only
schools, exactly these external achievements. Same way, and the Madhivaka is the same. Same. Now
they
just more glorify, more redefine that, more widening, more deepening that. And absolute truth,
truth and the relative truths, again. And I said yesterday, really to you, all the visualizations
of the creative stage is the relative truths. And the dissolved stage of the compilation is
absolute truth. That is the one, just generally understanding that. But if we go pacifically to
this, then for example, Kriya Tantra, explaining again, the absolute nature is the same as
Madhivaka. Madhivaka, free from all the conceptions. That is absolute status.
And the relative level, everything is purely status. Relative level, everything purely status
as three Buddhas. And highlight the three Buddhas, which is, is what?
That's it. That's the relief. That's it. Kriya Tantra, what means Kriya Tantra? Actually, Kriya Y
ana.
What? What is it? Action. Yeah, action. Kriya is this Sanskrit word used as action.
And why they named it Kriya Tantra? And the teaching said, that's what we learned. We learned,
all of us taught it, we learned those things. And the teaching said, said because this school also
emphasized a lot of external activities, emphasized a lot of external activities.
And to cleansing, to purifying ourselves in the environment, a lot of emphasize
on the activities, outer activities. And those are there. And the principal said that at least
take a shower, three times take showers, and three times change your clothes in the day times,
or I mean, 24 hours, like that, at least three times. Those external, those are also different
meanings, addition of these levels, maybe more code or thing. But this is the one, teaching said
that.
So this is all with those characteristics. And see, then absolute is free from every extremes.
And every extremes means, there is what, how many extremes in the Buddha teaching said?
Said, what are? Poor. Poor. What are those? Existing, non-existing, neither nor. That's true.
That's it. That's the most time said, existing, non-existing, not existing, neither and neither is
that.
So that is the teaching said that. And so that is a very popular. And so this free from that,
that means there's no any sport of the grasping and clinkings. Clink everything in fundamental
level and as well as natural level is open, totally open, totally free from serious. And that is
absolute natures. And then in the relative level, and these three various, three these
buddha states, teaching said, and brilliantly with this, in the teaching said, all those kind of
like,
gross things what you see, is the energy of the geniuses, outlaw, good shortness, gross things.
And all the soft and tender things, what do you see, is like when you see this. And all the rough
and gross kind of like the tongues, what you see is the energy of the very body. Those are also in
the teaching. So that means all is within that nadana state. And then in the absolute level,
on the reality level, both are inseparable. They're not separated. This is the same
as Madhima comes in. Two truths are not separated. They all are within the same, same status. And
then
oppa is the middle way of the middle tanva lega. Or in some rather than teaching said,
like who follows the conduct in excellent activity as kriya tanthana and in a lay the practice
level
following the yoga tanthana is that. So it's like that, that is what the yoga. And so therefore,
then yoga tanthana is the same. That means three out of ten, now yoga tanthana. Yoga tanthana is,
the top is yoga tanthana. That is again the same as kriya tanthana basically. And all is in
absolute
level, everything is pure. Or as Madhima, everything is preformed for extremes and every extreme
step.
And then at the level, everything is like in a mandala of the buddha-varajalas. Or the way I
get daatas, mandalas. Everything in that mandala state. And in that also even though they appear
in a different way, it is also in the same state, inseparable states. So that is what this again,
two truths of yoga tanthas. And now we go to the Mahayoga's. And Mahayoga is then, this is what
we practice most of the time. It's the best on Mahayoga and Anayoga teaching and Ahiyoga also
teaching all Konwai and Toge. That's what most of the time our practice is the best.
In Mahayoga, what is this? At the relative level, everything is in three wajar state or two wajar
state. Everything is in three wajar states. Everything. Wajar form, wajar song and wajar
speech. Everything. Everything. At the absolute level, everything is completely economic status.
These three things are never separated from at all that. This is not just a pure
develop of that, but ordinary is pure, that it is state of this three wajar state or three mandala
states. Everything in that status. So similar with the Kriya Tantra and the Yoga Tantra, but it's
more
expanded, more expanding, more deeply. Everything is in that status. Everything is ordinary in
three
wajar status. Status and that is totally equal. And what in the teaching you say and what again
said, in the relative level, everything is pure. In the absolute level, everything is great
economic status. These are the same that also like Sathya's in Goheghar Bhattathar, we learn.
What in Goheghar Bhattathar said, everything is enlightened. There's nothing even we can't,
cannot, there's nothing that is not enlightened. Even Buddhas looking, searching, if there's
something slightly is not enlightened, Buddha will cannot find everything that enlightens. And how
all the 500 gets five dhyana buddhas and all the five elements are five criminal buddhas.
And what that is, what everything in that medallist. That is, but that is the true truth of the
Mahayoga practice. All that, everything in complete depth and great emptiness, great, great
economic status there. And then in the Anayoga, what you say, all is a three mandala status.
Everything and everything is what we see. All is within the vastness space of the
buddha samana bhadras. Vast the space of the buddha samana bhadra is the absolute truth.
It's all in the primal buddha, the absolute status.
And from that, the display of the variety of this environment is arising as samana bhadras.
Bhadras is all and that is relative truth. It's everything. And in reality, this both are
completely joint target. We don't in separation. It is the great blissfulness
mandala of the children's. Children's is all that joint within great blissfulness status.
So this is basically what in here is basically everything is within the mandala of this
great nature, which is never separated from the blissfulness of the emptiness.
It's nature. It's not just enlightenment. Enlightenment is blissfulness.
That which is free from grasping and clinging and touching. That is what it is.
That that's what it is. So this is three mandala lemonas. Again, have I said,
first samana bhadri is absolute truth. And then samana bhadra is relative truths.
And both are completely united within the state of the great blissfulness.
Blissfulness, there's no separations, no distractions. That way to understand.
And that, so this grace samana bhadra, samana bhadri, samana bhadri is the same as mademaka,
the absolute truth. Free from all extremes. And free from every conceptions and every
areas, every centers. I mean, it is free from that nature. And then now we go to the zobtin status.
Zobtin status is not just a focus externally. This now is coming, observing to the heart in a way,
our nature of the mind. Nature of the mind, of mind is the source of everything.
Everything. Mind is the displays, the display, all this. The mind itself is totally enlightened.
Again, same thing. It's not just something looking to outside. It is within us, within ourselves.
How that is enlightened is three kaya status. Dharmakaya, Sambokaya and Nirmakaya status.
Totally enlightened. That is what we will come out of this. It's three kaya status.
Three kaya status, all these things. How this reflect, as we can say, according to Dzokilava,
how this reflect in a way roughly says. All the open space is a reflection of the Dharmakayas,
including space. And all the sound systems of this, whatever we see, is reflections of the
Sambokaya energy of our own nature of the mind. And all the display of the tangible displays
are the Nirmakaya displays, energy of our mind. And they are all in the same status. Even though
they see different, emanate different, yet never lost their call to identity of the nature of the
infinite in the freedom, openness, emptiness. That all moves within our vastness of our own
nature of the mind, or our own mind. And our own mind is a three kaya state. That's what all
display of the three kaya status. So if we say again, according to truths, the Dharmakaya is
absolute truth. Sambokaya and Nirmakayas are related truths. Related truths. And all is same
nature status. It's not two different, emanate difference is within the one everything is within
within and everything is within everything or one is everything. That's how the nature is.
There is no contradictions. There is no extremes. That's how nature is functioning.
And nature is emerging, emerging, and then displays according to teaching. So this is now
a brilliant overview and a strain of these two truths. That's how these two truths are.
Ah, like pervasive.
Well, so this is the general overview of that. So this is here,
the gala master K. T. Mooji said in the commentary, he said according to the yanas,
then this understanding of the two truths is getting to become deeper. That's what we
should understand. And now we go to the, um, if you have any questions.